Next up we have another method called Splice.
It's quite a bit different than sliced.
Even though they sound similar Splice is also a little trickier to understand.
There are at least three different values that we can pass it.
So in short what it does is it either removes elements or replaces elements or adds in new elements
in an array.
So usually you would do it in the middle of an array because if you were just trying to remove or add
to the beginning or end we already have pushed pop shift and unchecked.
But if you want to update the middle of an array or add something like right here you could use Splice.
So there are three arguments.
We have the start index.
Then how many things you want to delete.
And then whatever you want to insert.
So you don't have to insert anything and you don't have to delete anything but those are the three values.
So let me show you a couple of examples here I have this same animals array.
Let's say I wanted to insert something after shark so I can call animals dot splice and then the first
argument is where I want to start either removing or inserting and then the second argument is how many
things to delete.
You can see the hint I'm getting here in my console.
So the start index how many should you delete.
We're going to delete zero because I'm simply adding in something at index of 1.
And what would make sense to add here.
Let's do another thing that swims.
How about octopus okay.
We'll look at animals and now you can see shark then octopus.
Also notice splice returned an empty array.
This is because I didn't delete anything.
If I did delete something it would return to me those deleted values.
So let's try using it just to delete not to insert.
So how about we delete.
Let's go with a whale and bear.
So we want to start at this index which is 0 1 2 3.
So animals dot splice starting at index of three.
How many things do we want to delete too.
And we won't insert anything.
So if I do this you can see it returns to me an array containing the two deleted items and now animals
is two item shorter.
OK.
So we've seen two use cases you can insert values we just inserted one but we could insert multiple
if I did the same thing animals dot splice and Let's insert How about in between salmon and lizard we'll
add a couple values so we would do index of 2 because 0 1 2 gives us salmon.
Actually if I want to go in between salmon and lizard I should actually start inserting an index of
three so that I can keep salmon where it is.
We will remove zero and then let's add in a snake and what's another I guess a frog.
Okay look at animals now.
And we have octopus salmon and then snake frog and then back to Lizard and tortoise.
So we've seen how to use it to insert something or multiple values.
You just make sure you remove zero.
You do have to put that zero there.
Otherwise you would confuse splice because it would see snake as the next value and thank you.
This is the number of items to delete because the second argument is always supposed to be the number
of things to delete.
It's not smart enough to figure out oh that's a string.
It's all order dependent.
We can also use it to delete as we've seen.
Like here you start with index of three.
We want to delete two things but we can also use it to replace.
So for some reason let's say I want to replace shark an octopus with uppercase versions.
I could do this.
Animals dot splice here I'll clear this.
So we have more room up top.
OK so animals that splice and I will start an index of zero.
I want to delete two items.
And here are the replacements shark and octopus.
There we go and let's look at animals.
Now we have shark and octopus at the start all right.
I wrote up a little bit of notice here for you take a look at the downloaded code of the downloadable
code up top I have the basic pattern we need to follow.
Start index the count of how many things to delete and then optionally a bunch of items to insert or
one item.
So here's the first use case we saw inserting with Splice where you want to start inserting we'll delete
nothing and we'll add an octopus.
So we end up with this.
Then we start deleting where we don't insert anything we just say started index 5 delete count is 2.
So we end up deleting two items the lizard and tortoise.
And then replacing with Splice combines all of that where we start with an index.
We say delete two things and then also add two things in at that same index.
So we're effectively replacing items in the middle of the array.
So Splice is very powerful in my experience.
You still use push and pop and shift and on shift far far more often than you will use splice but Splice
is nice in those situations.
Splice is nice in those situations when you need to do something in the middle of an array or you need
to delete a big chunk or replace a chunk instead of working with one item at a time like push and pop.